---
title : 'Blogging is Pain'
summary : 'To blog or not to'
date : 2025-08-25
draft : false
categories : ['tech']
---

## Introduction

Well hello, my occasional reader. Looks like we met here, on random url in world wide web - you wanted to read something, I wanted to write. Yes, 99% chance that in year 2025 you're not a human being - future is now, but a bit different than expected. Countless amount of scripts reading and saving (stealing, if you prefer) information whatever they could find. But what's in common here - they don't care about the content and I mostly don't care about them either. I have some goals that need to achieve - practice language, practice writing itself, try to hear thoughts inside and make, build something from it, something not embarrassing. At least not very.

Today I wanted to talk about blogging itself. Technical side and ideas behind the whole mess.

## Just Do It - Way

Easiest way to save some words in public place - use any of commercial tools like wordpress or even twitter to use their cdns for storing pics and videos, using their algorithms to promote your content and make it forcedly visible for people who supposedly may be interested in it. That's already clear enough - if you want to exchange your text to audience - it will work.

## Just Suffer in Another Way

Selfhost and Pseudo-Selfhost. Yes you can buy your domain (it's not hard). Set it up somewhere (harder - especially if you want explicitly know what exactly you doing now). Setup some blog service (complexity depends on blog tool). - And this all just setup. And not for once. If we separating configuration of blog tool itself and all other supporting stuff - you still need to install security updates on your OS, install updates of your theme, blog tool and maybe something else. You need to pay for domain, and check that your provider didn't decide to stop working for some reason.

And here we only prepared to be able to publish something in internet.

But there is some other stuff (I excluded point about writing itself, hope you know why) - you want to make theme look nice, you want to have some tags or categories, host some pics or even videos, maybe highlight code syntax and it's all requires at least attention and check. And maintaining of course, after you update something from previous sections or even if google decided to deprecate some useless feature in chrome rendering - you will get issue. Not big, but unsatisfying. And here we are not even finished yet - but came to main logical part of this opus - there is no satisfaction in blogging if you're looking for it in this self-hosting approach. There is a lot of processes inspiring and irritating, but no silver bullet for your expectations list. You will have more control and stress, that's it.

Yep, one last thing - you need to create texts, probably with pics or videos, and you want a local tool to make it fast and easy - and there is no such tool. Only compromise.

To be able to see preview of what you done - you need to build your tool and check preview - that means you already can't do it on mobile or ipad. Maybe you could build or implement some web editor for it. But here we're already discussing how to create a blog platform for one person. Sound nice of course - but in the beginning we only wanted to write some text and share it with countless bots.

And where are we now? Stuck between simple-but-limited and complex-but-flexible.

## Postscriptum

It's not that bad anyway - it sounds like there is a dead end, but the good thing here - we have so many beautiful blogs and websites and so many beautiful people (or even bots already) - who are maintaining it, or trying to make it so independent and endless that maybe we just need a bit more time to make it stupid simple, but still beautiful.

## What Else

Accidentally read that the next day after I published this post. Rakhim, by the way, wasn’t only complaining — he built our own platform (oh my..).

[post](https://rakhim.exotext.com/here-we-go)
